So again, we have two new repos,
one for network and one for cluster.
I'm gonna preface really quickly with
what we're about to do with saying, I do
not expect you guys at all to understand
that interest cities of an Amazon network.
So we're going to basically just make
a network that I kind of already
configured for you.
I'm not gonna go deep into what it is,
I'll let you guys look at
the resources later to understand it.
But basically just know
that we are going to create
a pretty standardized enterprise
Amazon network, okay?
So now that we have that-
>> By the way, I'll just
mention we have a course on Frontend
Masters, AWS for front-end engineers.
>> Perfect.
>> There's a lot of-
>> Be sure to check out
the course on AWS front-end engineers.
It's a good one, it'll help you out.
I didn't know that,
that was there, that's awesome.
Okay, cool.
So what we wanna do now really,
is we wanna clone those repos because
we wanna start making automation.
So I'm gonna say, gh pr or
gh clone, or, repo clone.
And for me, mine are gonna be AWS network,
And AWS cluster.
So now I have four automation repos,
right?
Cool, okay.
So let's go into network, okay?
Now, I highly, highly, highly recommend
every single one of you going to
the network repo, so
let's go to the network repo together.
AWS network.
And I'm gonna click on
the branch setup AWS automation.
And you'll notice that this is
the only branch in this repo.
This is because we only need
to set up the network once,
[LAUGH] you know what I mean?
And we're just gonna keep
making networks this way.
Make a file for each of these locally,
just do that for me.
So, go to the locals file,
copy that new file,
locals.tf, paste it in.
I'll explain it all in a second, but
let's just get all the code in here so
that we save time.
So we're gonna go to main.
I'm gonna click the copy button
right here, name file main.tf.
Paste it, close it, right?
Go to the next one.
Security group, copy it,
name file security_group.tf
Paste it in, right?
Variables, copy it.
Paste it in, okay?
So we should have four files, locals,
main, security group, and variables, okay?
Now, while you guys do that, I'm going
to explain what you're looking at.
So we always want configuration.
Always, always.
Even if it may seem that there's
nothing that you can configure,
try and at least identify something
that might make your life easier.
One of the most challenging parts of
creating infrastructure and networking
in specific is understanding how to
separate IP addresses and IP spacing.
This is one of the reasons
why I'm doing this for you.
What I have done is I have essentially
created an enterprise network in Amazon
for you,
which includes a database network with
a specific amount of IP address space.
It includes an elastic cash network
with a subset of address space.
It has an intra network or an intra
subnet, sorry, these are all subnets.
Intra subnet with an address space,
private and public.
So what a lot of this does is it
leans on the idea that you might need
databases in the future,
you might need caching in the future.
You might need completely
isolated resources in the future,
you might need a private
network in the future, and
you might need a public
network in the future, okay?
We're not gonna use all of these
subnets but they're there for
you to experiment with and,
take a look at as you want.
The next file is our main.tf,
this thing's huge.
[LAUGH] Well, it's actually not huge but
it's got a decent amount of stuff in here.
If you are curious as to how I
am able to calculate via bits,
[LAUGH] the address spaces of subnets,
I'm not.
I'm using a very nice
module to do that for
me which is the subnets hashicorp module.
Now you might be like, well does that
mean that it's gonna create the subnets?
Actually no.
[LAUGH] It's a module literally just
there for computation, that's it.
And you can do that with Terraform.
If you wanted to, you could have a
repository that just does computations for
you, and then you can reuse
that module in other places so
that it will do those computations for
you.
In this case, what we're really
doing is we're essentially saying,
okay, I wanna use the module subnets, I'm
gonna give it a base cidr_block, right?
And then every network, I'm gonna do
a little bit of four for four here,
and it's going go through my
configuration in local subnets and azs.
Now, why do I have subnets local,
but I have azs in vars?
Can anyone guess why I might have
my availability zone in vars but
my subnets locally?
>> Because your availability changes
more often than your subnets?
>> Exactly, yeah.
So the idea is that whenever you create
an availability zone going forward,
it's gonna take an exact
copy of the subnet or
all the subnets in these availability
zones and put it in this one, right?
So then you'll have elastic cache in a and
b, but
then later on maybe you go, man,
I really wish we had c as well.
Well, do you want to go in and
update all of that automation?
No, what we can do, and we can go to our
next file, is in our variables file,
we can make it so that we can really
manipulate our networks when we want to.
So say if in the future I wanna go from
1AZ to 4, it's one code change, right?
Now you'll notice I don't have
defaults here, there's a reason for
that and
I'm gonna show it to you in a second.
But don't put the defaults in,
do not put anything in here, right?
We're simply telling Terraform we
want these externally configurable.
Anything else in the main is really
just all related to the network
creation itself, you can look at that
logic and get an idea of how I did it.
But just to note,
as you used my modules, right?
There are also as I mentioned before
official Amazon modules that can help.
My modules are wrapped modules that do
not have existing code, essentially.
So I don't recommend going out and
creating automation
modules you don't need.
You know there's 1,000s of developers in
the world who are willing to help and
there's great repositories out there
that can help you get there quicker.
And honestly, I do think the module for
vpc is really good.
As you see, it's got the things we care
about zass, cidr, or database subnets.
It's just calculating these for
me to make it a little easier.
Cool, okay, so we've got our main.tf,
our security group.
If you've ever used Amazon before,
this is all security group stuff,
I basically wired this up for you.
So that if you do wanna play around and
provision a database on a specific subnet,
you can still access it and stuff.
So take a look at that later,
you're more than welcome to.
And again,
the last one is variables, okay?
Now one of the things we're gonna
wanna do is we're gonna wanna to init.
So we're gonna do terraform init.
Now again, you don't need Doppler
here because there's no back end and
this is actually going to
be a reusable module, so
we're never gonna connect
this directly to Terraform.
This is not a one to one repo,
I'll explain why in a second, so
let's keep moving.
But do an init for me and
then do a validate.
If you init and validate fine,
you should be good to go.
I'll give you guys a second to catch
up on that cuz we're actually moving
pretty quick now.
>> So not changing to a different
branch wouldn't have been a problem?
>> It would not be a problem, no, we're
gonna change your branch in a second,
yeah, yeah.
>> I'm noticing now that you're still in
main-
>> Mean, yeah.
>> As well, so I did not mess up.
>> Good catch, good catch.
That's good,
you're getting the rhythm now.
And that's important.
That's important.
So, as mentioned, we are still on main,
if you notice, in my repo, right?
So I do wanna quickly check out a branch.
And in this case, we'll say
add-resources or something like that,
the name doesn't matter, right?
But we are just gonna create
a nice little branch.
And then I'm gonna do git status,
git add, locals, main,
security_group, and variables.
Again, we don't ever really
need to add the terraform.lock,
it's up to you if you wanna do it.
I'm gonna hit enter, git status, and
then git commit- m,
feat: added network resources.
Great, I'm gonna push it up.
Wait, no,
this was just add-resources, sorry.
Okay, so
now we're gonna create a PR, right?
We're gonna follow the same process
we did with the other repos.
So again, I did ghpr create,
gave it a title,
which it might auto-populate for you.
If it does, then that's awesome.
Or, again, you can go to GitHub itself.
And then I'm gonna go to the PR.
So now I'm in my PR, and at this point
really you should give this to someone
else there's so much stuff in here
you don't wanna do this on your own.
So I'd recommend going to a teammate,
saying, hey, can I get an approval?
I just made an entire network,
can you please look at it and
let me know it looks good?
So then somebody approves it, check,
check, check, all looks good.
Great, okay, cool.
Let's go ahead and merge it in.
So we'll go here, and
we'll go Squash and Merge.
Yeah, did you have a question?
Okay, no.
>> I had to say squash.
>> Got you, yeah.
Squash, cool.
So what did we just do?
Well, we know we want an Amazon network,
but we actually know we want
a lot of Amazon networks.
So why didn't we go to workspaces and
[SOUND]?
Well, because this is kind of
like a many-to-many scenario.
Where we know that we wanna
create a lot of networks, right?
So let's get the automation in place to
where we can make this network as dynamic
as we want, right?
AZs, all the other things that we added,
right, CIDR, all of that.
And then we're gonna do the exact
same thing for the cluster.
So we're basically setting
up these resources before
we connect them to Terraform Cloud, right?
So realistically, if you wanted, you could
do like a local plan and apply with your
AWS credentials, and you could actually
create a network locally, right?
But we don't wanna do that.
We don't wanna create it locally, however
GitOps is our source of truth, right?
So if GitOps is our source of truth then
the repo has got to be there first before
we tell the workspaces
to start synchronizing.